Interview questions

1)	What is docker why we are using docker  difference between vm?
2)	What is docker cloud & how it is different from docker hub what is the features over docker hub ?
3)	What is docker compose ?
4)	How you will link when the docker containers is in different virtual machine is there any configuration in docker compose file are any command or any variable?
5)	What you will do if one master got corrupted, can we create multiple masters?
6)	What you will do in case any pod deleted?
7)	What is namespaces in kubernetes can you tell me some?
8)	Can you tell me some commands using in kubernetes ?
9)	Tell me the command to create cluster?
10)	Difference between rc and rs?
11)	What is kubernetes?
12)	What is the difference between kubctl & kops?
13)	Why you are using kubectl can you explin why we are using ?
14)	Why we using kops?
15)	What is the difference between docker cloud and docker swarm?
16)	How to attach a volume in cluster at some time the container will be deleted then rs will re-create new container then how to attach that container automatically and how to restore the volume automatically to re-created container?
17)	How many projects you used  kubernetes?
18)	N number of docker containers deployed to different vms how will you manage there is no kubernetes installed?
19)	If installed kubernetes how you will deploy this containers into kubernetes cluster?
20)	Can you tell me the command for creating kubernetes cluster in vm?
21)	How many nodes we required to create kubernetes cluster?
22)	We have nearly 15 nodes in my organization all are decentralized so which node I need to create as a master? Is their any possibility to make all the machines as masters?
23)	Our applications are decentralized I don’t want distributed environment if any thing happens to the master all will collapse , can we create multiple masters?
24)	What is the difference between kubectl and minikube?
25)	If any container down in my cluster how you will rectify?

26)	How can I print shell script name?

Echo $0

27)	How to write a script when the first command is executed then execute the below script?

A)     Java   --version
  If [ $? –eq  0 ]
   Then
      Echo “print the variable ”
    Else
      Echo “prin the variable”
  fi
28)	How to print the exact file name by using command ?

A)	First assign path as a variable 

awk -F '/' '{print $(NF-1)}' <<< "$a"

29)	Can you tell me the syntax for for loop and while loop?
30)	How to dictionary in python?

A)	Dict={a:10,b:10}


31)	How to add another variable c, with key 10 to the above dictionary ?
32)	How to replace existing dictionary?

Dict=[c:10]

33)	How to print shell name?
34)	How to assign a all the arguments to a single variable?
35)	How to print the current processid of current shell?
36)	How to know the file that is entering randomly to my script?
37)	How to divide two variables in shell script?
38)	What is trap?
39)	What is shift in shell script?
40)	How to run our script in background?
41)	How to know the running back ground process id ?
42)	What is $*, $$ and $@?
43)	How to print only directories?
44)	How to print the directory only started with number?
45)	How to grep two strings at a time?
46)	How to grep a string that is started with some string and ends with some string like a…..b ?
47)	How to print string that starts with a?
48)	Did you worked on arrays?
49)	How will you give access of your script to a particular user?
50)	How to access background running scripts and their pid?
51)	How to run our script in foreground?
